site/Plugins.md, before:

- You can also install more plugins by using 3rd party or custom Python packages
- "🌟" indicates some maturity & reliability level of the plugin, considering age, attention paid and complexity - from 0 to 3.

## Standard plugins

### 🌟🌟🌟 [scratchpads](scratchpads)
makes your applications dropdowns & togglable poppups

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ZOhv59VYqkc/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZOhv59VYqkc)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [magnify](magnify)
toggles zooming of viewport or sets a specific scaling factor

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/yN-mhh9aDuo/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yN-mhh9aDuo)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [toggle_special](toggle_special)
moves windows from/to special overlay workspaces in a single command

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/BNZCMqkwTOo/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BNZCMqkwTOo)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [shortcuts_menu](shortcuts_menu)
a flexible way to make your own menus running shell commands, relies on rofi, dmenu, ...

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/UCuS417BZK8/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UCuS417BZK8)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [fetch_client_menu](fetch_client_menu)
select a window to be moved to your active workspace (using rofi, dmenu, etc...)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [layout_center](layout_center)
a workspace layout where one client window is almost maximized and others seat in the background

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/vEr9eeSJYDc/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vEr9eeSJYDc)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [system_notifier](system_notifier)
open streams (eg: journal logs) and trigger notifications

### 🌟🌟🌟 [wallpapers](wallpapers)
handles random wallpapers at regular interval (from a folder)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [gbar](gbar)

improves multi-monitor handling of the status bar - only *gBar* is supported at the moment


### 🌟🌟 [expose](expose)
exposes all the windows for a quick "jump to" feature

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ce5HQZ3na8M/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ce5HQZ3na8M)

### 🌟 [lost_windows](lost_windows)
brings lost floating windows (which are out of reach) to the current workspace

### [toggle_dpms](toggle_dpms)
toggles the DPMS status of every plugged monitor

## Multi-display required

### 🌟🌟🌟 [workspaces_follow_focus](workspaces_follow_focus)

makes non visible workspaces available on the currently focused screen.
If you think the multi-screen behavior of Hyprland is not usable or broken/unexpected, this is probably for you.

### 🌟🌟🌟 [shift_monitors](shift_monitors)

moves workspaces from monitor to monitor (caroussel)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [monitors](monitors)

allows relative placement of monitors

Commit message:

cleanups + quickstart in index page

site/Plugins.md, after:

This page lists every plugin provided by Pyprland out of the box, more can be enabled if you install the matching package.

"🌟" indicates some maturity & reliability level of the plugin, considering age, attention paid and complexity - from 0 to 3.

## Standard plugins

### 🌟🌟🌟 [scratchpads](scratchpads)
makes your applications dropdowns & togglable poppups

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ZOhv59VYqkc/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZOhv59VYqkc)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [magnify](magnify)
toggles zooming of viewport or sets a specific scaling factor

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/yN-mhh9aDuo/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yN-mhh9aDuo)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [toggle_special](toggle_special)
moves windows from/to special overlay workspaces in a single command

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/BNZCMqkwTOo/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BNZCMqkwTOo)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [shortcuts_menu](shortcuts_menu)
a flexible way to make your own menus running shell commands, relies on rofi, dmenu, ...

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/UCuS417BZK8/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UCuS417BZK8)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [fetch_client_menu](fetch_client_menu)
select a window to be moved to your active workspace (using rofi, dmenu, etc...)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [layout_center](layout_center)
a workspace layout where one client window is almost maximized and others seat in the background

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/vEr9eeSJYDc/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vEr9eeSJYDc)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [system_notifier](system_notifier)
open streams (eg: journal logs) and trigger notifications

### 🌟🌟🌟 [wallpapers](wallpapers)
handles random wallpapers at regular interval (from a folder)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [gbar](gbar)

improves multi-monitor handling of the status bar - only *gBar* is supported at the moment


### 🌟🌟 [expose](expose)
exposes all the windows for a quick "jump to" feature

[![demo video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ce5HQZ3na8M/1.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ce5HQZ3na8M)

### 🌟 [lost_windows](lost_windows)
brings lost floating windows (which are out of reach) to the current workspace

### [toggle_dpms](toggle_dpms)
toggles the DPMS status of every plugged monitor

## Multi-display required

### 🌟🌟🌟 [workspaces_follow_focus](workspaces_follow_focus)

makes non visible workspaces available on the currently focused screen.
If you think the multi-screen behavior of Hyprland is not usable or broken/unexpected, this is probably for you.

### 🌟🌟🌟 [shift_monitors](shift_monitors)

moves workspaces from monitor to monitor (caroussel)

### 🌟🌟🌟 [monitors](monitors)

allows relative placement of monitors
